---
layout: post
title:  "Monday June 30th 2025"
date:   2025-08-11 01:07:17 -0400
categories: journals general
---
Good day of traveling and planning out Workpads. Honed in on bare bones PADS, need to sketch out the versions of a job record's rawest forms. Translate this into "word books" and byte averages, avg KB overall. Focusing on Form _> JPEG seems like the right starting place / chess move. COM & EXIF data get stripped when IMG shared via SMS or WA, possibly can insert into IMG tail. Best approach is probably just to standardize the layout and font usage for each screen type including KaiOS. Max 17 lines for 240320 w/ 7.5 words per line. COM packing can hold up to 64KB. So where does this project really go? Scaling out? Twain, Edison, Lee? All kinds of identifiers and attributes used to describe thoughts, experiences, work and anything else. Groupings of attributes tell a story on their own, they're a way of seeing and framing things with great detail or creative simplicity. If we take it further, can one of those lenses be used to adjust the appearance and experience of the tool? A Twain mode could strip away a lot of the technical elements while posing folksy clever questions about tasks? Could Ollama be used to draw in generative framings to task types? Workwarrior could implement JPEG creation a la Workpads & also implement a Workpad Assembly Protocol to produce an onscreen and saved file summary plus JPEG. Easy as "wp new add task 5 8 12 title:fill story: fill details: fill". Maybe WP for WW just arbitrarily assembles tasks and journal entries to create portraits of work useful to the user? What is the powerful way that Workpads and WW can begin? Messages? Graphics? For WW e.g. the no nonsense prompt mod is "name@camp - wwname". Starting or switching gives "Currently Active WOrkwarrior Profile "NAME". What about command Hi? Others e.g. What? Why? How ?Who? What?? WW is a personal tool for making progress of any kind. Technically ,it's a suite of open source tools tied together with a command language and simple scripts. In practice, WW is built to help individuals work, play and plan at any scale imaginable. If you do what you love it's not work. But we all still have work to do. Let's go! Why?? Working and learning aren't so different and at the best of times they happen at the same time. Insights flash as tasks are undertaken. Most importantly, we thrive when recall of actions and ideas can happen quickly. And, as life would have it, financial planning mixes into all we do like electricity in a circuit. As each person finds their frontier, tools are needed that can persists perpetually, unphased by all the fads. This tool is here to stay.